#summary Check List for Creating an AIC-Expresso Release

= Setup Required for doing a Release =
  # Ensure you can deploy to the Maven Central repository from your workspace, see: [https://docs.sonatype.org/display/Repository/Sonatype+OSS+Maven+Repository+Usage+Guide Deploying via Nexus Guide] for details.

= Preparing the Release =
  # Checkout the latest version of aic-expresso into a clean workspace.
  # Ensure all tests pass and there are no compiler warnings.
  # Ensure the version number in the pom.xml file is updated appropriately.
  # Commit changes to Subversion

= Publish the Release =
  # Run the following command from your aic-expresso workspace directory:
{{{
mvn -P sonatype-oss-release deploy
}}}
  # Close the Staged artifacts and then Release them to the Maven Central Repository, by following steps 8 onwards from [https://docs.sonatype.org/display/Repository/Sonatype+OSS+Maven+Repository+Usage+Guide the guide for deploying via Nexus] from the [https://oss.sonatype.org/ Nexus Server]
  # Upload the classes,javadoc, and source files to the Downloads page.
  # Tag the release under Subversion.
  # Create a release page for the released version and add to the [ReleaseHistory release history wiki page] (in reverse chronological order).
  # Ensure the Wiki Pages relating to usage are updated to take into account any changes to the APIs.

= Useful Resources =
  * [https://oss.sonatype.org/ Sonatype/Nexus Open Source Repository]
  * [http://search.maven.org/ The Maven Central Repository]
  * [http://www.sonatype.com/books/mvnref-book/reference/public-book.html The Complete Maven Reference]