#summary Getting started using the AIC-Expresso project (for developers).

= Setting up your workspace =
You can check out from the project's Subversion repository directly. For this you will require a Subversion client, see the following for useful instructions:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/aic-expresso/source/checkout]
  * [http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html]
  
and check out the trunk to a directory named __aic-expresso__ in your workspace.

==Using the Command Line and <a href="http://maven.apache.org/">Maven</a> ==

__AIC-Expresso__ consists of a single Maven pom.xml file and can be built from the command line using Maven as follows:
<code>
mvn clean test
</code>
== Using the <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/">Eclipse IDE</a>==
*Note:* The <a href="http://subclipse.tigris.org/">Subclipse</a> Subversion client is a useful plugin for the Eclipse IDE. Refer to http://subclipse.tigris.org/ for details on how to setup your Eclipse IDE to use the plugin. The following instructions detail how to download the AIC-Expresso project using this plugin.

  # Select the menu item 'File->New->Other':<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_file_new_other.png
  # In the New 'Select a wizard' dialog, select 'SVN->Checkout Projects from SVN':<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_new_other_svn.png
  # Hit the 'Next >' button.
  # If this is your first time accessing the __AIC-Expresso__ Subversion repository you will want to select 'Create a new repository location' and hit the 'Next >' button otherwise just enter in the pre-existing location from the list provided (see [http://code.google.com/p/aic-expresso/source/checkout Google Source Checkout] for details).
  # In the 'Select Folder' dialog, select the trunk folder and hit the 'Next' button.
  # In the 'Check Out As' dialog, select the 'Check out project in the workspace' radio button and enter 'aic-expresso' as the project name and then hit the 'Finish' button.<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_check_out_as.png
  # Select the project in the Eclipse 'Package Explorer' and bring up the context sensitive menu (right click under Windows) and select 'Configure->Convert to Maven Project':<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_convert_to_maven.png
  # `Problem: Plugin execution not covered by lifecycle configuration` may occur if you do not have the m2e ANTLR connector or build helper maven plugin installed:<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_pluginnotcovered.png <br> To resolve bring up the context sensitive menu (right-mouse-click on Windows) and select the `Quick Fix Ctrl+1` option:<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_quickfix.png <br> Then select the `Discover new m2e connectors` in the dialog that was opened up:<br >http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_discoverm2connectors.png <br> Finally, install the missing me2 connector:<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_installantlrm2econnector.png<br> and follow the Eclipse dialog prompts till the install is complete.
  # Currently ANTL4 generates and interface file and base implementation that cause compiler warnings to be generated. To exclude these warnings you can open the project's properties and set the `Ignore optional compile problems:` to `Yes` for the antlr4 generated sources directory:<br> http://aic-expresso.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/eclipse_antlr4_compiler_warnings.png<br>
  # You should now be able to build and test the project from within Eclipse. *Note:* You will need to clean and build the project twice initially. This is because the main source is dependent on code being generated by the Antlr parser generator on the first compilation.