#summary Quantification of Function Applications

In logic, quantification can typically be done on variables only. We allow function applications to be quantified as well. For example, the expression corresponding to:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(10)} f(1) + f(10)" height="25"/>

computes a sum over all possible interpretations of `f(10)` while leaving the interpretation of other "positions" of `f` untouched. For example, if:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="A = {1, 3, 10}, B = {1, 3, 5, 7}" height="25"/>

and:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="f : A -> B" height="25"/>

then there are a total of 4^3^ = 64 possible interpretations. If we take it `f` is mapped to the interpretation:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="{(1,1),(3,3),(10,5)}" height="25"/>

then the previous summation would be iterated over 4 times, which would result in the following expanded out summation:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="(1+1) + (1+3) + (1+5) + (1+7) = 20" height="25"/>

In other words, when <wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(10)} ..." height="25"/> 

is written, `f` is a new "locally" scoped symbol that agrees with the outside `f`'s interpretation on everything that is not `f(10)`. So it will iterate over only 4 interpretations, the ones identical to the outside one everywhere but `f(10)`, and then varying `f(10)` through `B`. Consider a variant of this where there is a free variable `y` in the expression:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(10)} f(y) + f(10)" height="25"/>

If `y = 1` we would get the same value 20 as before. However, if `y = 10` then we would end up with `f(10) + f(10)` which would be equivalent to:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(10)} 2 xx f(10) = 2 xx 16 = 32" height="25"/>

i.e. the original expanded out summation would have been:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="(1+1) + (3+3) + (5+5) + (7+7) = 32" height="25"/>

We can also move the free variable `y` into the index of the summation, for example:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(y)} f(1) + f(10)" height="25"/>

consider the cases where `y = 1`, `y = 10`, and `y = 3`. The outside `f` is mapped to the same interpretation as before (i.e. `{(1,1),(3,3),(10,5)}`) then in case 1 where `y = 1`, we are iterating over `f(1)` giving us:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="(1+5) + (3+5) + (5+5) + (7+5) = 36" height="25"/>

in case 2 where `y = 10`, it iterates over `f(10)` giving us:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="(1+1) + (1+3) + (1+5) + (1+7) = 20" height="25"/>

and in case 3 where `y = 3`, it iterates over `f(3)`, even though it is not in the expression, giving us:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="(1+5) + (1+5) + (1+5) + (1+5) = 24" height="25"/>

The main point here is that, even though `y` appears in the index of the summation, it is not a "new" locally scoped symbol. This indexing of function applications only makes the "functor" be a new locally scoped symbol. The arguments are a normal expression, to be evaluated so the we know which "position" of `f` is being iterated. For example, it is fine to write:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(1+9)} f(1) + f(10)" height="25"/> 

or even:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="sum_{f(y+9)} f(1) + f(10)" height="25"/>

Quantification of function applications may also be used with intensional set notation, for example:
<wiki:gadget url="http://mathml-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/mathml-gadget.xml" border="0" up_content="{f(1) + f(10)}_{f(1) in {3,5}}" height="25"/>